The very basics you will need always are those little algebra skills we all have been taught in schools
such as being able to deal with fractions, powers and square roots in case you are no longer familiar
with it.
And we need to recapitulate only a few things here that we need in our lectures to understand little
formulas that involve product terms.
For instance, like, for instance, that of Heisenberg's uncertainty principle.
One should be familiar with the use of algebraic fractions, for example, that from the moment the
product X times Y equals Z follows Y equal set over X or X equals set or Y, that is just a little.
Very basic and elementary skills that you need here with fractions, we don't need much more.
Then about exponentiation, an exponent is a mathematical shorthand that tells us how many times a number
is multiplied against itself in general, given a number be multiplied itself and times one right between
XP, etc., etc..
So on times B equal.
B, power and.
With be called the base and n the exponent.
Not that the base must not necessarily be an integral such as two to the power three equal eight, but
can be any real number.
Typical examples are the formulas for the area.
Capital letter, a letter a of a square and the value volume V of a cube, both with inside a given
as a capital letter A a equal.
A squared and V. equal, a cube.
Don't forget that the square of a negative number always gives a positive one.
That is, for instance, minus two squared equals four, minus three square equals nine, minus four
square equals 16 and so on.
This leads us then also to the square root operation, the square root of a number X is the number Y,
such that Y squared equals X.
It is simple like that, so the square root of X is Y and one right square root of X equals Y.
Like you, example's square root of or equal plus minus two, don't forget the minus square root of
nine plus minus three, square root of sixteen plus minus four.
And there can be also square root of the square also, which give irrational numbers.
That is numbers with an infinite number of digits, like the square root of two equals plus minus one
point four one four two one three five six two, etc..
That's an important concept is that of the absolute value or modulus of X.
Where X is real, number first, we will also deal with complex number later, uh, which is the positive
value of a number regardless of its sign.
For example, minus three in models equals three.
Absolute value of minus 27 equals 27, absolute value of five, remains five, etc., notice that the
modulus of a real number.
Is the square root of its square, that is this one here.
The absolute value of X equals square root of X Square.
That's the way of writing also algebraically the modulus of a real number.
Also to keep in mind are the elementary laws of algebra.
For example, the commutative law states that the order of the terms in a binary operation does not
change the result.
That means if you have two numbers, A and B and you add them up, A plus B is exactly the same thing
as adding up B plus plus one plus eight, for example, three plus two equals two plus three.
It it is equal five.
It seems obvious and elementary, but we will see how in quantum physics commutative property is generally
no longer true.
Then there is the associative law.
Hmm.
Which holds when rearranging the parentheses in expression's containing the same operator does not change
the result that is.
And that if you put in parentheses A plus B and C, this is equal A plus parentheses B plus C.
The same thing also for the multiplication operator in parentheses, A times B.
Then timezone is equal A times A, parenthesis B, times C, or you can also give it a tone and say
eight times B.
Timezone is equal A.
Times.
Betsie.
So you can emphasize this.
Then the distributive law instead holds when the when two operators are involved and you have eight
times.
B plus C.
Is equal intensity.
Plus, H.M.S..
So you just want to placate A with B and then again, A, B, C.
One will frequently find longer variants of this, and that's only the basic law, but you will find
variants such as this one eight times or a set of numbers or parameters or variables in a parenthesis
eight times.
The parentheses B plus, C plus, plus, etc. is equal just the multiplication of the first number or
variable in the first term times.
Each time the.
The numbers contained in the parentheses, this is a tenth B plus eight, eight times C plus eight times
the plus eight times and so on, or generalising with indexed terms A we can use.
And this is used very frequently in physics, that instead, instead of using the letters of the alphabet,
you index them with numbers or variables.
Or for example, think also of the Cartesian coordinates and you have in parentheses X1 plus X2 plus
X3 and so on, times y one, y two and so on.
And then you have to multiply out all of these and you get X one, y one plus x1 y two plus x1 y three
and so on.
And you reach then you go over to the second index x2 y one plus x2 plus x2 y two and so on.
And please notice also that the multiplication, that symbol is frequently omitted when it is obvious,
obvious where it operates.
From that follows immediately that the basic examples that lead to the binomial theorem, we did not
discuss much here and that, for example, if you square.
The sum of two numbers, X plus Y squared gives X squared plus two times X, Y plus Y squared.
If you don't see that, simply take a pencil and a piece of paper and apply the steps given above.
Then one also realizes, for example, that X plus Y in parentheses times X minus Y is just X square
X squared, minus Y squared and should be able to calculate then with that, somewhat more complicated
expressions like this one here.
And I leave this to you as an exercise.
And what about the good old theorem of Pythagoras, the Pythagorean theorem?
Everyone in school learns that it is about the relation of the length of the sides of a right triangle,
namely the square of the hypotenuse, as I see here, opposite the right angle, which is given by the
sum of the square of the other two sides.
The Pythagorean equation states that A squared plus B square is equals C Square.
Probably you remember this very well from from school.
This is a very important equation that pops up almost everywhere in mathematics, physics, engineering
and all the practical applications.
For example, it helps establish the distance between two points in space once the coordinates are given,
as we see in the next sections.
Finally, recall the use of the great Greek capital letter sigma for the summation.
Some examples you can see here, for example, for example, summation from one to N with the index,
I know A in A is given one plus two plus three plus and so on.
And you write it.
And then in this way, the same thing for the sum some of the squares from again from one to N or this
and you sum over I square and you get.
Yeah.
What.
What this.
Compact form symbolism means is that you are coming over and the numbers and the sequence of one plus
four plus nine and so on.
Or what we will see very frequently, you have just to sum over indexed numbers, but possibly also
complex numbers, as we will see, and you have here this symbology, the sum of C I squared up from
I equal one to N means Siwa C one squared plus plus C, two squared plus three.
Squared, plus, plus, plus, plus CNN squared.
So these are just examples to give you an idea how this summation convention and this Greek letter,
Capital Sigma, is used throughout the text or in all mathematical and treatises of physics.
And just to remember what it means.
Another bit of knowledge, mathematical knowledge that they must bring with you in this course, uh,
are Cartesian coordinate systems, scholars and vectors.
Cartesian coordinates are numbers which indicate the location of a point relative to a fixed reference
point, the the origin being its shortest perpendicular distances from two fixed axis or three planes
defined by three fixed axis, which intersect at right angles at the origin.
By doing so, one can uniquely identify any point in a two dimensional or three dimensional space by
a set of two or three numerical coordinates respectively.
The two dimensional Cartesian plane is subdivided in four so-called quadrants and the three dimensional
volume volume in eight quadrants.
Think of it as just a way to pinpoint objects in space.
That is on a graph or a map.
It's nothing but a complicated.
In this figure here, for example, the two points, P three, five and Q three or five in the two dimensional
and three dimensional space respectively can be pinpoint and can be located and identified in a two
dimensional or three dimensional space.
And that's obviously a way, a method to identify the position of particles moving in space, in space,
in time and in physics typically.
In a coordinated system, one can represent more than just points in space, namely also vectors, vectors
are quantities given by a collection of numbers and that graphically can be represented by arrows or
just simple as that.
Imagine an arrow, an arrow that have a specific length and direction.
So it's an arrow that indicates in some direction and has some length in physics.
Lots of physical quantities are.
Designated with vectors, uh, in this figure, for example, the two red arrows, not how four vectors,
the coordinates are written, one over the other to distinguish it from point coordinates.
A practical example is the velocity of an object moving in space and which has a direction at the speed.
The speed is given by the length of the vector and the direction.
Of the arrow is just the direction of the particle which moves with that given speed.
The velocity is a vector, while the speed is just a number that tells us how fast the object moves
without specification of any direct.
This letter kind of quantity is called also Escala.
Just a number, which is is not a vector or if you prefer, it's a zero dimensional vector, an acceleration
or a force are also vectors, since one needs the direction along which they move or act to where the.
Acceleration has also a direction, a force indicates also and direction along which it acts and an
acceleration has an absolute value as a force.
And this gives me the length of the acceleration vector or of the force vector.
Whereas other SKALLA quantities could be, for instance, the temperature.
Or the mass of an object?
These are just numbers and have no direction, no direction is needed to specify a temperature or mass
of an object.
So this is important that you are able to distinguish the principle in principle.
What color is color quantity?
Just a number and a vector.
Both describe physical properties of things that are mathematically very different ones.
Just a number.
Another can be a two to.
Error is two numbers or in two in two dimensional space or a narrow vector in a three dimensional space.
And this means, obviously, you must be able to distinguish these two red.
Vectors that we show here, one two dimensional space, which has coordinates 10 and seven and the other
in a three dimensional space, which has coordinates 10, three and five.
In general, Vector's can be added or subtracted the resulting vector from the addition of two parallel
or also called Kaleena vectors is simply the sum of its length.
The resulting vector from the addition of two a. parallel opposite vectors is simply the different difference
of its length.
Meanwhile, generally, the resulting vector from the addition of two vectors with generic orientation
is done according to the parallel parallelogram law of vector addition given to vectors.
Let's call them the one and we to the vector, some V equals V one plus V2 is just the diagonal of its
vector parallel parallelogram as shown in this figure here.
Analytically, this is realized by adding the Cartesian components of each vector to one another.
For example, if you wish, I showed it here, but draw it also by yourself on a piece of paper and
check by yourself that the vector two or three plus six one gives as a resulting vector, thanks to
the parallelogram law.
The vector result in vector eight for.
This is just quite simple and useful method for some investors because because all physical quantities,
such as velocity's forces, also polarisation, electromagnetic fields, magnetic momentum and much
more are vectors.
And that can be added according to the parallelogram law of a vector can also be multiplied with another
vector.
It is the so-called Schallert product or DOT product.
One takes as takes the product of each Cartesian component
of each vector and adds them up.
Not that this furnishes aspect as color.
That is a number.
For example, here you can see you just take two times six plus three times one and this gives 15.
It's no notice also that if two vectors are perpendicular perpendicular to each other, their product
is always zero.
For example, here you can see an example.
Check it by yourself and you see that these must be perpendicular.
And you just can also draw it on a piece of paper to check if this is if this is true to mutually perpendicular
vectors are said to be orthogonal vectors.
If they also have a unique length one, they are said to be all four normal vectors.
So this little check, uh, is is very useful to see if two given vectors are somehow orthogonal or
perpendicular or so normal to each other.
And this will frequently happen to be the case in the algebra that we use in quantum mechanics.